Add Backup / Restore docs (#2072)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/partials/proc_managing-backups-through-custom-resources.adoc

> = Managing backups through custom resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="managing-backups-using-custom-resources"]
= Managing backups using custom resources
```

> This section describes how to create backups of {prod-short} installation and do recovery directly through Custom Resource objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to create backups of {prod-short} installation and do recovery directly using Custom Resource objects.
```

.Prerequisites

include::partial$snip_internal-backup-server-warning.adoc[]

> * xref:setup-backup-server.adoc[Set up a backup server].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:setup-backup-server.adoc[Setting up a backup server].
```

> * xref:define-backup-server-for-operator.adoc[Configure {prod-cli} to use the backup server].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:define-backup-server-for-operator.adoc[Configuring {prod-cli} to use the backup server].
```

.Procedure

 * xref:operator-create-new-backup[]
 * xref:operator-restore-from-backup[]

> [id="operator-create-new-backup"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="operator-creating-a-new-backup"]
```

> == Create a new backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Creating a new backup
```

> To create a new backup, create a new object of `CheClusterBackup`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new backup, create a new `CheClusterBackup` object:
```

[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheClusterBackup
metadata:
  name: {prod-short}-backup
spec:
  backupServerConfigRef: backup-server-configuration <1>
----

> <1> Name of `CheBackupServerConfiguration` object that defines which backup server to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Name of the `CheBackupServerConfiguration` object that defines which backup server to use.
```

> To request a new backup create a new `CheClusterBackup` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To request a new backup, create a new `CheClusterBackup` object.
```

> To reuse the same name, delete old object first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reuse the same name, delete the old object first.
```

[NOTE]
====
Editing of `CheClusterBackup` objects has no effect.
====

> To automatically setup and send a backup to internal backup server, instead of configuration reference specify `useInternalBackupServer` property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To automatically set up and send a backup to and internal backup server. Instead of a configuration reference, specify  the`useInternalBackupServer` property:
```

[id="managing-backups-using-custom-resources_{context}"]
= Managing backups using custom resources

> The following section describes how to create backups of {prod-short} installation and make a recovery directly through Custom Resource objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to create backups of {prod-short} installation and recover directly using Custom Resource objects.
```

.Prerequisites

include::partial$snip_internal-backup-server-warning.adoc[]

* xref:setup-backup-server.adoc[Set up a backup server].

* xref:define-backup-server-for-operator.adoc[Configure {prod-cli} to use the backup server].

.Procedure

 * xref:operator-create-new-backup[]
 * xref:operator-restore-from-backup[]

[id="operator-create-new-backup"]
== Create a new backup

. Create a `CheClusterBackup` object to create a new backup:
+
[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheClusterBackup
metadata:
  name: {prod-short}-backup
spec:
  backupServerConfigRef: backup-server-configuration <1>
----

<1> Name of the `CheBackupServerConfiguration` object defining what backup server to use.

* The creation of a `CheClusterBackup` object starts a new backup.

> * Before reusing the same name for a new backup object, delete the old object first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before reusing the same name for a new backup object, delete the old object:
```

+
[subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----
{orch-cli} delete CheClusterBackup _<name>_ -n {prod-namespace}
----

[NOTE]
====
Editing the `CheClusterBackup` objects has no effect.
====

.Alternative

> Suppose a user does not want to configure a backup server and agrees to the internal backup server limitations. In that case, it is possible to request automatic configuration from {prod-short} Operator and the preparation mentioned above is not required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the internal backup server, request automatic configuration from {prod-short} Operator. The preparation described above is not required.
```

> * Configure the automatic setup and sending of a backup to the internal backup server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure the automatic setup and sending of the backup to the internal backup server:
```

+
[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheClusterBackup
metadata:
  name: {prod-short}-backup
spec:
  useInternalBackupServer: true
----

> [id="operator-restore-from-backup"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="operator-restoring-from-a-backup"]
```

> == Restore from a backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Restoring from a backup
```

. Create a new object of `CheClusterRestore` to recover a {prod-short} installation from a backup: 
+
[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheClusterRestore
metadata:
  name: {prod-short}-restore
spec:
  backupServerConfigRef: backup-server-configuration <1>
  snapshotId: ba92c7e0                               <2>
----

> <1> Name of `CheBackupServerConfiguration` object that defines what backup server to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Name of the `CheBackupServerConfiguration` object that defines what backup server to use.
```

<2> Optional parameter defining the Snapshot ID to restore from. The default value is the last snapshot on the backup server.

. Create a new `CheClusterRestore` object to request a new recovery.

* Before reusing the same name for a new backup object, delete the old object first:
+
[subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----
{orch-cli} delete CheClusterBackup _<name>_ -n {prod-namespace}
----

. Wait until the recovery process finishes.
+
In a case of errors occurrences in your browser after the recovery, clean up the browser data for the {prod-short} domain.

[NOTE]
====
Editing of `CheClusterRestore` objects has no effect.
====

.Verification

. Verify backup process state:

.. Read the `status` section of the `CheClusterBackup` object to check the backup process:
+
[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
status:
  message: 'Backup is in progress. Start time: <timestamp>' <1>
  stage: Collecting {prod-short} installation data          <2>
  state: InProgress                                         <3>
  snapshotId: ba92c7e0                                      <4>
----
<1> Displays the overall state or error message.

> <2> Current phase of backing up process in the human-readable format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Current phase of the backup process in a human-readable format.
```

> <3> Backing up process state. One of `InProgress`, `Succeeded` or `Failed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Backup process state. One of `InProgress`, `Succeeded`, or `Failed`.
```

<4> ID of the created backup snapshot. The field appears only when `state` is `Succeeded`.

. Verify recovery process state

> .. Read the `status` section of the `CheClusterRestore` object To check the recovery process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Read the `status` section of the `CheClusterRestore` object to check the recovery process:
```

+
[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
status:
  message: 'Restore is in progress. Start time: <timestamp>' <1>
  stage: Restoring {prod-short} related cluster objects      <2>
  state: InProgress                                          <3>
----
<1> Overall state or error message.

> <2> Current phase of the recovery process in the human-readable format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Current phase of the recovery process in a human-readable format.
```

> <3> Recovery process state. One of `InProgress`, `Succeeded` or `Failed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Recovery process state. One of `InProgress`, `Succeeded`, or `Failed`.
```
